title: Why we started Startuplab.co
author: Daniel Palacio
description: Why was startuplab.co founded
keywords: startuplab co-working startup
date: 2011/06/07

As this is our first blog post, I thought it would be appropiate to
start by talking about why we created startuplab.co would be
appropriate. In the past year there has have been some great
developments in the Colombian start-up community, and we have to give
proper recognition to those that have made this possible.

1. The organizers of Bogotech have done a great job for more than 3
years creating the number \#1 tech meet-up in Bogota (there are so many
people coming to this meet-up that the room is no longer enough).

2. Not more than a month ago, the organizers of Bogodev were able to get
more than 100 developers to attend their first meet-up; if that doesn't
sound like a large number to you, realize that on the first Bogotech
there where fewer than 30 people.

3. We now have an amazing co-working space, HubBOG, where the tech
community can congregate; entrepreneurs can work inside there beautiful,
huge (more than 400 sq meters) co-working space and it's lead by a
management team that is honestly concerned with the success of your
business and the community around it.

4. Bogota is also the first city in Latin America to have a Founders
Institute semester.  More than 30 top entrepreneurs started the first
Founders Institute class in Bogota in the month of May. Attendees are
currently learning, from an impressive list of mentors, about the
leading edge best practices on how to be better founders.

To all of those who have contributed to this effort: Rene Rojas,
Leonardo Suarez, Alex Torrenegra, Alan Colmenares, Daniel Dominguez and
many more of you that I can't remember right now, thanks for all your
efforts.

With that said, it is common for us as entrepreneur's to think that we
are the only solution to the problem. That whatever we created is the 
exact thing that was missing to solve the problem: In Colombia, we are
still behind Argentina, Brazil, Chile and probably others, and this gap
is unfortunately increasing. So
you may think, why do we need another co-working space if we have HubBOG
?  Or, if we have a Founder Institute why do we need more mentorship ?
Well Startuplab.co is not here to solve these issues, and we are also
not seeking to solve each and every problem the Colombian start-up
community has. What we are aiming is to help a small niche of the
community that we believe is not being served: the people who want to
build a big web or mobile start-up.

So what does Startuplab.co brings to these entrepeneurs ? Well, we bring 4
things that are unique in Colombia.

 1. Team building: Startuplab.co is not a place were you come to co-work
with similar individuals on an established company, it's a place where
you come to build teams. We believe great companies are not created by
individual, great companies are made by great teams. You can go to
Founder Institute to become a better founder, but once its time to build
your team we hope you come to Startuplab.co to do it. At Startuplab.co
everyone is in their initial state, so they are either looking to build
a great team or to join a great team. Leaders will emerge organically,
and only the best ideas/founders are the ones who will be able to get
the best talent. It's a win-win situation. Those really talented but
lacking ideas can join those really talented with great ideas. And
those with great ideas can create great teams.

 2. Acceleration: Once you are ready to take the leap and act on that
huge idea you've been thinking for the past 5 years, we hope you come to
Startuplab.co. We will push you harder than what you've ever
experienced, and we will put your idea to the test. We strive to create a
really competitive environment where you are pushing everyone around you
and they are pushing back. Only those who are really willing to give
100% will succeed. Only those ideas that are worth it will survive. In
the end however you will achieve more than what you think is possible in
less time. As a start-up you don't have too much going for you, your
brand is not known, you have less money and you know less about the
market than the current companies. Where you do have an edge in though
is speed so you can react quicker, pivot faster and do more in less time,
if you loose this edge, you are doomed.

 3. Funding: Let's face it, you are likely going to need money at some
point. In Colombia unfortunately there are no angel investors willing to
fund a company at an early stage. We want to fix that. Once you've
validated your idea, created that awesome MVP, and built that great team
and you are ready to take your company to the next level we may invest
in you. We are not going to raise a Series A for you, what we are going
to do is seriously consider invest a small amount in you, $10,000 -
$20,000. This might not seem like too much for you, but we think is
enough, let me tell you why. With a $20,000 investment you will have
enough capital to do a market test and then spend the next 3 months
raising more capital. You are likely going to have to go to Silicon
Valley or New York to raise this capital, but we will prepare you and
introduce you to some angels and VC's to get you started in that
process.  You will also have a social proof - you already have someone
who believes in you and invested in you, even if its just $20,000 - this
is really important, more important than you think.

 4. Outside exposure: You can go to HubBOG and you will meet a big
number of amazing people, but you will also need to network outside of
Colombia to be successful. We are trying to build a big network outside
and put it to your disposal. There are big cultural differences between
the US culture and the Colombian culture. We know, we lived all of our
professional lives there, so we can prepare you and guide you along the
way.  That's why we are organizing trips to both New York and Silicon
Valley, so when its time to fund raise you are ready. And once you do
it, we hope you take your team, your great idea and that money and move
to HubBOG were you will have all the space and resources to become a
great company.

We know this is not the ultimate solution, we are too small and we are
only aiming for a small niche of people who are looking to build huge
companies in the web or mobile space, but we are really happy about
that, we want to do a small thing, but we want to do it really well.

We like to think of ourselves as a very small part of the equation to
solve the problem, but that's OK for us, we just hope that Startuplab.co
has a positive impact and we are really excited and humbled to join this
community that others have created.
